>> Jason Lengstorf: Part 1, we're
going to create a custom Gatsby theme.
It's gonna be a documentation theme,
and that's going to use MDX.
If you've watched the the other
workshop that I did on Gatsby it for
front end masters we use MDX.
But if you haven't used MDX before, don't
worry, we're gonna cover all of it here.
We're gonna define some custom data type.
So we're gonna define an actual docs page,
generic type that uses MDX.
We'll use Theme UI which is a wonderful
library from Jackson Black that
allows us to kind of set up colors and
font sizes and
things in a way that's composable and
easy to share.
We will also add support for
live edited example code.
We're gonna be using react
live from Formidable Labs.
It's a really cool way to show a code
sample and the result of that code sample
in a way that somebody can edit and
see the results immediately.
Then, once we're done with that, we're
going to install that custom theme on
an existing site I built a fake JavaScript
library and then I decided I couldn't
have a fake JavaScript library so I built
a real one, it's called Honkify and
if you remember the untitled goose game,
what it does is it makes all of the links
on your site honk instead of actually
clicking through the thing you wanted to.
So that was a great way to procrastinate.
We're also gonna customize the theme.
So we're going to install the the docs
theme on to this hongfei site and then
we'll customize the theme using options so
that it looks like the hongfei site.
We'll use component shadowing
to extend Theme UIs so
we'll be able to override colors,
fonts, things like that.
Then we're going to build
a site from scratch.
We'll build a fan site for Negroni
which are my current favorite cocktail.
And we'll use that docs theme, but
we're not gonna use it for docs.
We're gonna use it for
recipes, which means that we're gonna
have to make some modifications to it.
So we'll extend Theme UI again.
But then we're going to do some fun stuff.
We're gonna get into
Cloudinary to manage images so
that our image pipeline is nice and fast.
We're just gonna upload things to
Cloudinary, let Cloudinary do the work so
that our buildings pipeline
doesn't slow down.
We're also gonna use component
shadowing to customize components,
because we don't necessarily
want any reference to docs.
We want to update that
to reference recipes, so
we'll be making those switches as well.
And then we'll just install a second
theme to see how that composes together.
So we'll install an events
theme that I built before.
And we'll just plug that in and
see how it works.
And then finally, we're gonna set up a
dynamic app that uses client side GraphQL
with Apollo,
we will configure client only routes and
Gatsby, so
this will be a linkable search results.
So we're gonna use the Rick and
Morty API to look up characters.
And whenever you search for
something you want to be able to send
a link to that search results said
to someone and have them click on it and
see the same search results.
So we're gonna build that will
set up redirects and nullify so
that this works locally and
when you deploy it, and
then we'll use react hooks
to set up a search form.
And the results page,
as I mentioned, will be linkable.
So, with all of that being said,
let's get started.
You are welcome to code along.
I have a tendency to go a little bit fast.
So also feel free to just sit back and
absorb it.
And all of this is gonna be online and
you'll be able to revisit it
check out two different points.
But yeah, if you want to if
you want to clone the repo,
it's at jlang storf/gatsby-intermediate.
And we'll be starting
from the start branch.